# MetaData: A Tool to Supplement Data Science Education for the First Year Undergraduates
Implementation of the MetaData software application developed as an effort towards encouraging data science education among freshers in the Indian Universities.The research project was carried out under the guidance of Prof. T Senthil Kumar at Amrita Vishwa Vidyapeetham University, India. 

Details of the software application and our research work is described in our [ACM Paper](https://dl.acm.org/doi/abs/10.1145/3395245.3396409) published at the 8th International Conference on Information and Education Technology 2020, held in Okayama, Japan.

## Abstract
In the Indian Universities, data science courses are offered to computer science undergraduates only in their higher semesters of under-graduation. Keeping in mind, the growing importance of data science, under-graduates need to be introduced to data science courses in their first year of under-graduation itself. Although first year undergraduates are furnished with the required mathematical and statistical concepts during their higher secondary education, a requirement of understanding sophisticated programming concepts hamstrings universities from offering courses in data science to first year undergraduates. As an outcome of our research, we propose a software named MetaData. MetaData abstracts all levels of implementation and helps students better understand the fundamental concepts in data science by observing the applicability of these concepts on real-world datasets. We justify the effectiveness of the tool through a data science classroom scenario, wherein 44 first year undergraduates were encouraged to use the tool and provide constructive feedback.
